Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. Programming language is simply a set of instructions that can be used to manipulate data in the computer.
It is used to create programs that implement specific algorithms.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. JDK is used for developing Java applications and applets.It includes: an interpreter/loader (java),
a compiler (javac) is used to compile Java source code files into executable Java bytecode classes,
debugger is used to debug a code. Disassembler to disassembles class files.
An archiver (jar), a documentation generator (javadoc) and other tools needed in Java development.

What is IDE?
A. IDE is stands for Integrated Development Environment. An IDE typically contains a code editor, a compiler or interpreter,
and a debugger, accessed through a single graphical user interface (GUI). The user writes and edits source code in the code editor.
The compiler translates the source code into a readable language that is executable for a computer. And the debugger tests the software
to solve any issues or bugs.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse, Intellij, NetBeans, JGrasp and so on.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. A Java program is written using either a Text Editor like Textpad or an IDE like Eclipse and is saved as a .java file. (Program.java)
   The .java file is then compiled using Java compiler and a .class file is obtained from it. (Program.class)
   The .class file is now portable and can be used to run this Java program in any platform.
   Class file (Program.class) is interpreted by the JVM installed on a particular platform. JVM is part of the JRE software.

What is class?
A. Class is a blue print or template for objects.

What is object?
A. Object is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. In computer programming, an entry point is where the first instructions in a program are executed, and where the program has access
to command line arguments. To start a program's execution, the loader or operating system passes control to its entry point.
For example: in Java 'main' method is the entry point of the application.

Why main is static?
A. In order to invoke the JVM without creating a new object of a class, we need to have a “main” method as static.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. The Object class, which is stored in the java.lang package, is the ultimate superclass of all Java classes (except for Object ).

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. -Path is an environment variable which is used by the operating system to find the executables.
Classpath is an environment variable which is used by the Java compiler to find the path, of classes.ie in J2EE we give the path of jar files.
-PATH is nothing but setting up an environment for operating system. Operating System will look in this PATH for executables.
Classpath is nothing but setting up the environment for Java. Java will use to find compiled classes.
-Path refers to the system while classpath refers to the Developing Environment.
-In path we set the path of executables while in classpath we set path of jars for compiling classes.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A. Interface can only have abstract method but Abstract class can be both abstract and non abstract method.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class? if not how do you use it?
A. No. We can implements Interface or extends a Abstract class.

what is Access Specifier?
A. Java Access Specifiers (also known as Visibility Specifiers) regulate access to classes, fields and methods in Java.
These Specifiers determine whether a field or method in a class, can be used or invoked by another method in another class or sub-class.
Access Specifiers can be used to restrict access.

What is OOP? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOP stands for Object Oriented Programming.
Features: Abstraction(implementation hiding), Inheritance(is used for extending classes), Encapsulation(Data hiding),
and Polymorphism(Ability of an object to take many form).

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. Java package contains API in the java API library. Default package: java.lang.object;

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. API stands for Application Programming Interface. It is a set of pre-written codes found in JDK to make our code writing experience easier.
Some of the most common API I have used:
  java.util.*;
  java.lang.object;
  java.lang.Math;

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. No, to avoid ambiguity error java does not support multiple inheritance through class.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Overloading occurs when two or more methods in one class have the same method name but with different arguments.
Method overloading happens in compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. An exception is an unwanted or unexpected event, which occurs during the execution of a program i.e at run time, that disrupts
the normal flow of the program’s instructions. Exception indicates conditions that a reasonable application might try to catch.
Java exception handling is managed via five keywords: try, catch, throw, throws, and finally.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods?
A. The static keyword in Java is used for memory management mainly.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. final(lowercase) is a reserved keyword in java. The final keyword in java has different meaning depending upon it is applied to
variable, class or method.
final with Variables : The value of variable cannot be changed once initialized.
final with Method : The method cannot be overridden by a subclass. Whenever we declare any method as final, then it means that
we can’t override that method.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. - Final is a keyword. It is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable. Final class can't be inherited,
final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.
- Finally is a block. It is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
- Finalize is a method. It is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
A. It is a Block of codes just like a method but without a return type. Can be called when you creating an object.
The purpose of constructor is to initialize an object.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes, we can have multiple constructors in a class.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. Default Constructor will be called.

What is "this" keyword in java?
A. 'this' keyword is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object.
  - It can be used to refer instance variable of current class
  - It can be used to invoke or initiate current class constructor
  - It can be passed as an argument in the method call
  - It can be passed as argument in the constructor call
  - It can be used to return the current class instance

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. Super keyword is used to call parent class constructor. (super.methodName())
Super keyword must be the first statement in any particular constructor. You can not have two Super keyword in one constructor.

What is JVM stand for?
A. JVM stands for Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A. JVM (Java virtual machine) is platform dependant while java language is platform independent.

What version of java are you using?
A. java version "1.8.0_111"

What is JAR stand for?
A. JAR stands for Java Archive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A. JDK is the Java Development Kit – it is the JRE, but with javac (which is what you need to compile Java source code) and
other programming tools added.
JVM is the Java Virtual Machine – it actually runs Java bytecode.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A. JVM  executes bytecode at runtime and in JRE.
JRE provides platform to execute java programs and its the implementation of JVM.

What is compile time and run time?
A. During compile time source code changes into executable code .but during run time executable code is used to give output.
Error present during compile time could be compiled without error,only syntax of code has to be correct.
But if logic of code is not correct then it will be compiled successfully but gives error during runtime.
Error during compile time is due to syntax error but error during runtime is due to logical error.

What is heap?
A. The heap is the area in memory where objects are stored.

How java manage it's memory?
A. Java has automatic memory management,has a garbage collector working in background to clean the unused objects and
free memories. Two big parts of memory are STACK & HEAP. Stack memory stores local variables and functions while heap memory
stores all the objects.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String is an immutable class, it can't be changed. StringBuilder is a mutable class that can be appended to, characters replaced
or removed and ultimately converted to a String. StringBuffer is the original synchronized version of StringBuilder.

What is Singleton class?
A. In OOP, a singleton class is a special class that can have only one object (instance of the class) at a time. If you try to
create another object it will point to the same object always.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A. Serialization is a mechanism of converting object into byte stream. Deserialization is the reverse process where the
byte stream is used to recreate the actual java object in memory.

When to use transient variable in java?
A. transient is a variables modifier used in serialization. At the time of serialization, if we don't want to save value of a
particular variable in a file, then we use transient keyword. When JVM comes across transient keyword, it ignores original value
of the variable and save default value of that variable data type.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A. While loop: condition is tested at the beginning of the loop and if the condition is True then only statements in that
loop will be executed. So, While loop executes the code block only if the condition is True.
Do While loop: condition is tested at the end of the loop so Do While executes the statements in the code block at least
once even if the condition Fails.

What is Enum?
A. Enum represents constant data types. It is a special "class" that represents a group of constants(unchangeable variables,
like final variables).

What is Iterator?
A. Iterator is used for iterating (looping) various collection classes such as HashMap, ArrayList, LinkedList etc.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. Integer will take more memory than int.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. String is immutable for several reasons:
- Security: parameters are typically represented as String in network connections, database connection urls, usernames/passwords etc.
If it were mutable, these parameters could be easily changed.
- Synchronization and concurrency: making String immutable automatically makes them thread safe thereby solving the synchronization issues.
- Caching: when compiler optimizes your String objects, it sees that if two objects have same value (a="test", and b="test") and
thus you need only one string object (for both a and b, these two will point to the same object).
- Class loading: String is used as arguments for class loading. If mutable, it could result in wrong class being loaded
(because mutable objects change their state).

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. Calling a constructor from the another constructor of same class is known as Constructor chaining. The real purpose of
Constructor Chaining is that you can pass parameters through a bunch of different constructors, but only have the initialization done
in a single place. This allows you to maintain your initializations from a single location, while providing multiple constructors
to the user. If we don’t chain, and two different constructors require a specific parameter, you will have to initialize
that parameter twice, and when the initialization changes, you’ll have to change it in every constructor, instead of just the one.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. Serial collector: a default collector which uses one garbage collection thread for the Garbage collection operation.
Parallel collector: uses multiple Garbage Collection thread for the garbage collection operation.

What is JIT stands for?
A. JIT stands for Just In Time compilation.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A. Java Heap space: is used by java runtime to allocate memory to Objects and JRE classes. Whenever we create any object,
it’s always created in the Heap space.
Garbage Collection: runs on the heap memory to free the memory used by objects that does not have any reference.
Any object created in the heap space has global access and can be referenced from anywhere of the application.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. No, you can't guarantee the garbage collection process.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. Heap memory is used by all the parts of the application whereas stack memory is used only by one thread of execution.
Whenever an object is created, it's always stored in the Heap space and stack memory contains the reference to it.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Java Reflection is a process of examining or modifying the run time behavior of a class at run time.
Reflection is useful since it lets you write programs that do not have to "know" everything at compile time, making them
more dynamic, since they can be tied together at runtime. The code can be written against known interfaces, but the actual
classes to be used can be instantiated using reflection from configuration files.

What is multithreading in java?
A. Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. Synchronization in java is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.
Java Synchronization is better option where we want to allow only one thread to access the shared resource. We can achieve
the Synchronization with the help of synchronized modifier.

What is Framework?
A. Java Frameworks are nothing but large bodies of predefined Java code which you can apply to your own code to solve your
problem in a specific domain. You can use a framework by calling its methods, inheritance, by providing “callbacks”,
listeners, or other implementations of the Observer pattern.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A. JUnit, TestNG, Data Driven, Keyword Driven, Hybrid, Page Object Model.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A. Both TestNG and JUnit Testing framework used for Unit Testing.
TestNG is similar to JUnit. Just few more functionalities/annotations are added to it that makes TestNG more powerful than JUnit.
Ex: dependency testing, group testing, suit testing.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A.  junit-4.12.jar
    testng-6.8.7.jar

What is dependency injection in java?
A. It is a technique where one object supplies the dependencies of another object.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A. Static binding occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime.









